{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25320\viewh14600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \cb2 \ul \ulc0 trunk vs branch vs tag in subversion or SVN
\b0 \cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 In short
\b0 \
- A trunk in SVN is main development area, where major development happens.\
- A branch in SVN is sub development area where parallel development on different functionalities happens. After completion of a functionality, a branch is usually merged back into trunk.\
- A tag in SVN is read only copy of source code from branch or tag at any point of time. tag is mostly used to create a copy of released source code for restore and backup.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb2 That's all on 
\b \cb1 difference between trunk, branch and tags in Subversion or SVN
\b0 \cb2 . They are mostly categorized based upon there usage. Though trunk, branch and tag are quite common words in source control, and other SCM also uses these words, there behavior may be little different on other SCM, so don't forget \cb1 to check\cb2  SCM documentation.\cb1 \
\
\
\cb2 Technically all three i.e. trunk, branch and tag are folders in SVN. If you are using tortoise SVN, a popular windows client for subversion, you can explore trunk, branch or tag. If you browse SVN repository using Repo browser or simply open it on any browser e.g. Internet explorer, you will generally see three directories as trunk, branch and tags at root of project. \cb1 This is\cb2 actually one of 
\b \cb1 SVN best practice
\b0 \cb2  to create this kind of directory structure. As I said earlier, trunk is place where main development happens, and branches are places where different developer work on different functionalities. This division is purely based on how programmer uses trunk and branches. Similarly, tags are used to backup releases e.g. alpha release or beta release or any version of release. Main 
\i \cb1 difference between branch and tag in subversion
\i0 \cb2  is that, tag is a read only copy of\cb1  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2011/09/code-review-checklist-best-practice.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul source code}} at a\cb2 ny point and no further change on tag is accepted, while branch is mainly for development. Other source control like CVS doesn't allow modification on tags but SVN allows changes on tags, which is considered as bad practice. You should not be making any change on tag once created, it should be treated as read only copy of source code only for restore purpose.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://javarevisited.blogspot.in/2013/04/difference-between-trunk-tags-and-branch-svn-cvs-git-scm-subversion.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://javarevisited.blogspot.in/2013/04/difference-between-trunk-tags-and-branch-svn-cvs-git-scm-subversion.html}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://javarevisited.blogspot.in/2011/09/code-review-checklist-best-practice.html"}}{\fldrslt http://javarevisited.blogspot.in/2011/09/code-review-checklist-best-practice.html}}}